# 2025-05-24 Project Analysis

* What is the priority here?

## TL;DR (Generated by Claude Sonnet 4 AI)

The author got sidetracked from reviewing their friend Drew's pitch book formatting and realized they should focus on substance over style.

Key insight: Instead of perfecting appearance, they should ask fundamental questions about project viability - inspired by the "Parable of the River" (go upstream to fix root causes).

Three core due diligence questions:

* Right players?
* Viable project?
* Audience-pitch alignment?

**Focus**: Measuring and testing viability (Drucker: "you can't manage what you don't measure").

**Next step**: Create 10 specific questions to help Drew measure/test his project's viability rather than just polishing the presentation.

**Moral**: Don't get lost in the weeds - make sure you're solving the right problem first.

## Intro

Because of my newfound treasure place of personal pleasures, ~~Bounders Inc~~, er, Founders Inc. {The strikeout was initiated by a spelling correction. The title is absolutely inappropriate in this context, but it made me smile.}, I have been thinking about how to analyze projects.

In looking over my friend Drew's efforts to draft a pitch book for his new venture, I started, of course, by looking at some of my favorite things: appearance, formatting, spelling good, grammar and all sorts of those technical aspects of writing.

Yesterday, I started the paper that would define and layout my personal rules, style guides and standards for writing such things. I was able to proceed quite quickly and in a fairly deep manner into drafting a style guide.

In doing so, however, the matter of the project itself at hand started coming to the fore. I began to formulate some feelings or considerations about the actual project at hand. 

And I was thus reminded of things such as:

### The Parable of the River

* https://theo-armour.github.io/pages/readme.html#https://theo-armour.github.io/pages/00-inspirations/10-philosophy%20and%20thinking/parable-of-the-river.md

Punchline: The man replied, “I’m going upstream to find out why so many people are falling into the river. If I can stop the cause, I won’t have to keep pulling people out one by one.”

### Peter Drucker Quotes

* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peter_Drucker
* Doing the right thing is more important than doing the thing right
* There is nothing so useless as doing efficiently that which should not be done at all.

### The Serenity Prayer

* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serenity_Prayer

## Time to go upriver

At some point, while drafting my style guide, which was going very well, I began to realize that perhaps I should be actually looking at what I was doing, perhaps there is something more immediately important. 

And that's when I started thinking about:

## Three Questions

In starting out a due diligence process https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Due_diligence, what are three good questions to start with? 

Here are the three questions I came up with. 

* Are these the right players for the project?
* Is this a viable project?
* Are the audience and the project "pitch" aligned? 

### First pass

* Since we know that it's Drew's project, we don't have to worry about that for the minute. 
* Since Drew has his audience in mind, we can put that aside for a while. 

And this means not concentrating on how the darn thing looks, but what does it actually mean?  So, let's start with the second question: Is this a viable project?

### Is this a viable project?

The first thing that came to my mind are two more Peter Drucker quotes. 

* You can’t manage what you don’t measure
* What gets measured gets improved

And "Thinking Out Loud," I can come up with a number of other similar ideas. 

* The United Nations' 17 Sustainable Development Goals all have targets and metrics. https://www.undp.org/sustainable-development-goals
* My hero, John Walker's book, _The Hacker's Diet_, is all about building a spreadsheet to monitor your progress. https://www.fourmilab.ch/hackdiet/
* The Lean Startup movement / https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lean_startup is all about building a minimum viable product, measuring its success and then iterating on it.

## Conclusion

Therefore, my best task for today would be to come up with 10 interesting questions to ask Drew about how he will measure and test the viability of his project.

I was able to come up with a list of ten questions, but I haven't really thought about them that carefully. So I will continue to work on these and present them tomorrow. 

The takeaway: Don't forget to point in the right direction. 

